Umbraco 10 rc breaking changes docs (#3949)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Fundamentals/Setup/Upgrading/umbraco10-breaking-changes.md

---
versionFrom: 10.0.0
meta.Title: "Breaking changes going from Umbraco 9 to 10"
meta.Description: "In this article we list the breaking changes between Umbraco 9 and 10"
---

# Breaking changes

Below it is possible to read about the breaking changes between Umbraco 9 and 10.
The article is subject to change, the closer we get to the launch of Umbraco 10.

## Update 'diff' from 3.5.0 to 5.0.0

> diff library used in the Backoffice client is outdated by two major versions. Updating this will be a breaking change since the exposed global object has been renamed from JsDiff to Diff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`diff `library used in the Backoffice client is outdated by two major versions. Updating this will be a breaking change since the exposed global object has been renamed from `JsDiff `to `Diff`.
```

## V10/feature/content schedule performance

> Removes mutable ContentSchedule property from IContent/Content to read/write content schedules please make use of _IContentService.GetContentScheduleByContentId && IContentService.PersistContentSchedule_ or the optional _contentSchedule parameter_ on _IContentService.Save_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removes mutable ContentSchedule property from `IContent/Content` to `read/write` content schedules. Use _IContentService.GetContentScheduleByContentId && IContentService.PersistContentSchedule_ or the optional _contentSchedule parameter_ on _IContentService.Save_.
```
Also should be "and" instead of &&?

Author: I believe it is part of the code example the && so it should stay :)

## v10 misc - Removed some redundant event handling code

> - Removed public methods: _Dispose_, _Dispose(bool)_ and _Initialize_

Author: Okay @bergmania and just to be sure is it the following classes?
- PublishedSnapshotServiceEventHandler
- UmbracoRequestMiddleware
- ContentTypeServiceVariantsTests

> - Removed public methods: _PublishedSnapshotServiceEventHandler.Dispose_, _PublishedSnapshotServiceEventHandler.Dispose(bool)_ and _.PublishedSnapshotServiceEventHandler.Initialize_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removed public methods: _PublishedSnapshotServiceEventHandler.Dispose_, _PublishedSnapshotServiceEventHandler.Dispose(bool)_, and _.PublishedSnapshotServiceEventHandler.Initialize_.
```

> - Removed public ctor.

Reviewer: This doesn't look right. Is it incomplete? If it's complete, maybe format it is `ctor`?

Author: Yeah, there is not more information about that specific breaking change unfortunately...

## v10 scope provider cleanup

> - Some public classes in the _Cms.Core.Services_ namespace have moved assembly from **_Umbraco.Cms.Infrastructure_** to **_Umbraco.Cms.Core_**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some public classes in the _Cms.Core.Services_ namespace has moved assembly from **_Umbraco.Cms.Infrastructure_** to **_Umbraco.Cms.Core_**.
```

- These same public classes have changed namespace from **_Umbraco.Cms.Core.Services.Implement_** to **_Umbraco.Cms.Core.Services_**.

## v10 update to npoco5

NPoco types and interfaces are part of our public interface and there are changes upstream.

## v10 SQLite support + distributed locking abstractions

> - Removed support for Microsoft SQL Server Compact (SQL CE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removed support for Microsoft SQL Server Compact (SQL CE).
```

> - Removed ReadLock & WriteLock methods from _ISqlSyntaxProvider_ interface, please instead make use of - _IDistributedLockingMechanism_ (or IScope which delegates to _IDistributedLockingMechanism_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removed `ReadLock` and `WriteLock` methods from _ISqlSyntaxProvider_ interface. Use  _IDistributedLockingMechanism_ (or IScope which delegates to _IDistributedLockingMechanism_).
```

Author: Looks good, made a small comment to your comment :D

> - Constants for SQL Server provider name moved+consolidated from _Core.Constants.DatabaseProviders_ & _Core.Constants.-DbProviderNames_ to _Umbraco.Cms.Persistence.SqlServer.Constants_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Constants for SQL Server provider name moved+consolidated from _Core.Constants.DatabaseProviders_ and_Core.Constants.-DbProviderNames_ to _Umbraco.Cms.Persistence.SqlServer.Constants_
```

> - Various SQL Server related services moved from the Umbraco.Infrastructure project to the new Umbraco.Cms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Various SQL Server related services moved from the `Umbraco.Infrastructure` project to the new `Umbraco.Cms.Persistence` - SqlServer project with altered namespaces e.g.
```

Persistence.- SqlServer project with altered namespaces e.g.

- _SqlServerSyntaxProvider_, _SqlServerBulkSqlInsertProvider_, _SqlServerDatabaseCreator_

> **Added various methods / properties to ISqlSyntaxProvider, these must be implemented in any downstream implementation e.g:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Added the following methods/properties to ISqlSyntaxProvider. These must be implemented in any downstream implementation e.g:**
```

- _ISqlSyntaxProvider.HandleCreateTable(IDatabase,TableDefinition,Boolean)_
- _ISqlSyntaxProvider.GetFieldNameForUpdate()_
- _ISqlSyntaxProvider.GetColumn(DatabaseType,String,String,String,String,Boolean)_
- _ISqlSyntaxProvider.InsertForUpdateHint(Sql)_
- _ISqlSyntaxProvider.AppendForUpdateHint(Sql)_
- _ISqlSyntaxProvider.LeftJoinWithNestedJoin(Sql,Func<Sql,Sql>,String)_

## v10: Update to ImageSharp v2

**Update dependency versions**:

> - _SixLabors.ImageSharp from 1.0.4 to 2.1.1 (see breaking changes in v2.0.0 release notes);_

Author: ```suggestion
- _SixLabors.ImageSharp from 1.0.4 to 2.1.1_
```

> - _SixLabors.ImageSharp.Web from 1.0.5 to 2.0.0 (see breaking changed in release notes);_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _SixLabors.ImageSharp.Web from 1.0.5 to 2.0.0 (see breaking changes in release notes);_
```

Author: We should probably just remove the "See breaking changes" part as it is not linking to it anyways

> Renamed CachedNameLength property to CacheHashLength on ImagingCacheSettings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renamed `CachedNameLength` property to `CacheHashLength` on **ImagingCacheSettings**.
```

> Moved ImageSharpImageUrlGenerator from project Umbraco.Infrastructure to Umbraco.Web.Common and updated the corresponding namespace and DI registration (from AddCoreInitialServices() to AddUmbracoImageSharp());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moved **ImageSharpImageUrlGenerator** from project `Umbraco.Infrastructure` to `Umbraco.Web.Common` and updated the corresponding namespace and DI registration (from `AddCoreInitialServices()` to `AddUmbracoImageSharp()`);
```

> Moved ImageSharp configuration from the _AddUmbracoImageSharp()_ extension method into separate _IConfigureOptions<>_ implementations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moved **ImageSharp** configuration from the _AddUmbracoImageSharp()_ extension method into separate _IConfigureOptions<>_ implementations:
```

- _The middleware is configured in ConfigureImageSharpMiddlewareOptions (which also replaces ImageSharpConfigurationOptions that previously only set the default ImageSharp configuration);_

- _The default physical cache is configured in ConfigurePhysicalFileSystemCacheOptions._

## V10: Migrate member properties to columns on the member table

> This is breaking because it is no longer possible access the properties listed below through the _IMember.Properties_ collection, you must now access them through their specific properties I.E. _IMember.IsLockedOut_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is breaking because it is no longer possible to access the properties listed below through the _IMember.Properties_ collection. You must now access them through their specific properties i.e. _IMember.IsLockedOut_.
```

- _umbracoMemberFailedPasswordAttempts_
- _umbracoMemberApproved_
- _umbracoMemberLockedOut_
- _umbracoMemberLastLockoutDate_
- _umbracoMemberLastLogin_
- _umbracoMemberLastPasswordChangeDate_

> Additionally, when previously you resolved a member as published content, all the default properties would be there twice, for instance, _IsLockedOut_ would be there both as a property with the alias umbracoMemberLockedOut and with the alias _IsLockedOut_, now it'll only be there once, with the alias being the name of the property, so _IsLockedOut_ in this instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, when previously you resolved a member as published content, all the default properties would be there twice, for instance, _IsLockedOut_ would be there both as a property with the alias _umbracoMemberLockedOut_ and with the alias _IsLockedOut_, now it'll only be there once, with the alias being the name of the property, so _IsLockedOut_ in this instance.
```

> Lastly the nullable dates on a user, I.E. _LastLoginLate_ will now be null instead of _DateTime.MinValue_ when getting a user with the user service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly the nullable dates on a user, i.e. _LastLoginLate_ will now be null instead of _DateTime.MinValue_ when getting a user with the user service.
```

## Update examine to version 3

**Examine 3 breaking changes:**

- _ValueSet immutable._
- _ValueSetValidationResult is renamed to ValueSetValidationStatus and ValueSetValidationResult is now a type._

## v10: Async support for content finders.

```CSharp
bool TryFindContent(IPublishedRequestBuilder request);
```

Has changed to:

```CSharp

> Task<bool> TryFindContent(IPublishedRequestBuilder request)

Reviewer: Is it missing ; at the end of code?

Author: Good catch, it is indeed :)

> Task<bool> TryFindContent(IPublishedRequestBuilder request)

Author: ```suggestion
Task<bool> TryFindContent(IPublishedRequestBuilder request);
```

```

## v10: Improve redirect content finder scalability

- Added more methods to **_IRedirectUrlRepository_** and **_IRedirectUrlService.cs_**

## v10: Fix Block List settings exception and optimize PVCs

- Added a new method on _IPublishedModelFactory: Type GetModelType(string? alias);_

> - The generic types of a _BlockListItem<TContent, TSettings>_ instance in the _BlockListModel_ returned by _BlockListPropertyValueConverter_ are now determined by calling this new method, which can be different and cause a _ModelBindingException_ in your views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The generic types of a _BlockListItem<TContent, TSettings>_ instance in the _BlockListModel_ returned by _BlockListPropertyValueConverter_ is now determined by calling this new method, which can be different and cause a _ModelBindingException_ in your views.
```
